---
title: Use your integration with Field Service
description: This article describes how to benefit from an integration with Microsoft Dynamics 365 Field Service.
author: brentholtorf
ms.topic: how-to
ms.search.keywords: field service, integration, integrating
ms.date: 05/14/2025
ms.author: bholtorf
ms.service: dynamics-365-business-central
ms.reviewer: bholtorf
ms.custom: bap template
---

# Use your integration with Field Service

This article describes the tasks that integrating [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] and [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)] enables. What you can do depends on whether your integration is the **Project** or **Project and Service** type.

The following sections describe tasks in both applications for both types of integrations.

> [!NOTE]
> The **Project and Service** type of integration includes the same features as the **Project** type. To keep this article short and avoid redundancy, the sections that describe the **Project and Service** type focus on using service features.

## Use a Project type of integration in Business Central

This section describes tasks you can do in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] with data from [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)].

### Track consumption on work orders

Depending on your settings on the **Field Service Integration Setup** page, when work orders include products and services, consumption information is transferred and posted using a **Project Journal** in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)].

Use the **Project Planning Lines** page to track posting and invoicing of consumption on work orders. From the **Project Planning Lines** page, you can create and post sales invoices in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]. Afterward, you can synchronize them with [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)] and keep track of the status of the invoices.

> [!NOTE]
> For work orders services [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)] with a booking that uses a bookable resource, if the bookable resource is coupled to a [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] resource data synchronizes to two project journal lines:
>
> - One line of the type **Budget** for the coupled resource.
> - One line of the type **Billable** for the item being serviced.
>
> The product on the work order service must be coupled to an item of the type **Service** in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]. Also, the base unit of measure for the item must be **Hours Unit of Measure** on the **Dynamics 365 Field Service Integration Setup** page.
>
> You can create an invoice for an item of the type **Service** from the billable project planning line, and use the budget project planning line to register cost with the resource.

### Manage locations

Use the **Locations in Field Service** action on the **Locations** and **Location Card** pages to open a coupled location in [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)], synchronize it, set up and delete couplings, and view synchronization logs. You can view the product quantity allocated from work orders in [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)] as part of the gross requirements for calculating inventory availability in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]. Demand generated by orders in [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)] automatically becomes input for planning.

### Create and post sales invoices

The **Quantity To Bill** and **Duration To Bill** values are copied to the **Qty- to Transfer to Invoice** field. Based on those values, you can create and post sales invoices in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] to invoice the customer. After the invoice is posted and synchronized to the Dynamics 365 Sales environment, or consumption is processed in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)], the quantity invoiced and quantity consumed display on the [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] tab on the **Work Order Product** and **Work Order Service** pages.

## Use a Project type of integration in Field Service

This section describes tasks you can do in [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)] with data from [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)].

### Synchronize work order products and services with project tasks

You can [create work orders](/dynamics365/field-service/create-work-order) using the **Service Account** and **Billing Account** from [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]. On work orders, you must select the **Business Central Project Task** in the **External Project** field. Selecting a project lets you synchronize work order products and services to the appropriate project task in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)].

### Check item availability

You can add inventory and noninventory items as **Work Order Products** on work orders and get the quantity on hand and costs and prices from [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]. To learn more, go to [Create a work order from the work order form and record list](/dynamics365/field-service/create-work-order#create-a-work-order-from-the-work-order-form-and-record-list).

You can use the **Open in Business Central** action to open a location that you coupled to a warehouse.

Technicians can verify whether the items they need to complete a work order are available. To check availability, on the **Work Order** or **Product** pages, on the **Related** menu, choose **Items Availability by Location**.

### Book resources

You can book a resource and relate the **Bookings** to work order services using a **Bookable Resource** from [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)].

### Create and post service orders

When you mark a work order product or service as **Used** on a work order with a specific work order type, the lines synchronize to a service order. Consumption is also posted, based on settings on the **Dynamics 365 Field Service Integration Setup** page.

During consumption and invoice posting in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)], the quantities are updated on the original work order product and work order service lines in [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)].


## Use a Project and Service type of integration in Field Service

This section describes tasks you can do in [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)] with data from [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)].

### Align work orders with service orders

The integration automatically synchronizes work orders in [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)] with service orders in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]. For example, when you create a work order, a service order is automatically created in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] and coupled with it. Data from work order incidents aligns with service item lines, and work order products and services align with service lines.

On work orders, you can add items of the type **Service** as **Work Order Services** and get costs and prices from [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]. To learn more, go to [Products and services tab](/dynamics365/field-service/work-order-experience#products-and-services-tab). The items from [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] show as primary assets under  **Assets** on the work order.

> [!NOTE]
> When a product or service's status on a work order changes from **Estimated** to **Used** in [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)], they synchronize to project journal lines in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)].

## Use a Project and Service type of integration in Business Central

This section describes tasks you can do in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] with data from [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)].

### Identify the service orders that synchronize with work orders

It could be that not all of your service orders synchronize with work orders. On the **Service Orders** list page, the **Coupled to Dynamics 365 Field Service** field indicates whether orders synchronize.

### Update the service order with data from the work order

While you do the work for a work order in [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)], the information from the work order synchronizes with a related service order in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]. For example, when you change the booking status from **Scheduled** to **In Progress**, the status of the service order changes to **In Process**.

However, because synchronization runs on a schedule, the information in the service order might not be up to date at the moment. To update the service order to be sure you're working with the latest information, choose the **Synchronize** action, and select **Get data update from Dataverse**.

### Post consumption and invoice the service order

When you change the status of a work order to **Completed** in [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)], the status of the service order in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] becomes **Finished** and you can post and invoice it.

You can review the information in the service order before you post it. For example, on the **Service Order** page, on the **Lines** FastTab, you can choose the **Service Lines** action to review the consumption of services and materials. If you're happy with the information, use the **Post** action to post the order. In [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)], the status of the service order becomes **Closed**. In [!INCLUDE [field-service-short](includes/field-service-short.md)], the status of the work order becomes **Posted**.

> [!TIP]
> If you have unposted consumption, choose the **Ship and Consume** option first. Then, to generate the invoice, choose **Ship and Invoice**.

To learn more about posting service orders, go to [Service Posting](service-service-posting.md).

## Related information

[Integrate with Microsoft Dynamics 365 Field Service](admin-integrate-field-service.md)  
[Integrate with Microsoft Dataverse via data sync](admin-common-data-service.md)  
