---
title: Searching the web with Copilot (preview)
description: Get an overview of how you enable searching the web with Copilot in Business Central.  
author: SusanneWindfeldPedersen
ms.author: mikebc
ms.reviewer: solsen
ms.search.keywords: bing, browsing, search engine, web-enabled AI, web-aware AI
ms.topic: overview 
ms.date: 07/02/2025
ms.custom: bap-template 
ms.collection:
  - bap-ai-copilot
---

# Searching the web with Copilot (preview)

[This article is prerelease documentation and is subject to change.]

Some Copilot features in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] can search the web for additional information. Allowing Copilot to search the web improves the quality of Copilot responses by grounding them in the latest information from public website content, and saves you time from having to switch apps to manually find things yourself. Copilot is powered by Microsoft Bing, and connecting Copilot to Bing search is optional. 

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Bing Search is available from update 26.3, initially in Sandbox environments only. Because it's intended for use with AI features, Bing Search isn't available for [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] on premises.

[!INCLUDE [preview-note](~/../shared-content/shared/preview-includes/production-ready-preview-dynamics365.md)]

## What is Bing Search? 

Microsoft Bing is an online service operated by Microsoft that allows apps to search the web and return web results, similar to when you open up your browser and search the web with Microsoft Bing or with other search engines. Microsoft Bing Search enables safe, ad-free search results, surfacing relevant information from billions of websites. 

Microsoft Bing is a separate product that operates differently from Dynamics 365 and has different data-handling practices covered by the [Microsoft Services Agreement](https://aka.ms/msa) between each user and Microsoft, together with the [Microsoft Privacy Statement](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=521839). Microsoft acts as an independent data controller responsible for complying with all applicable laws and controller obligations.

## Which Copilot features can search the web? 

The following table describes the list of Copilot capabilities that currently use Bing Search. 

| Feature | How Bing Search is used | What happens if Bing Search isn't enabled |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Copilot Chat | **From Update 26.3**<br> Copilot uses Bing Search to read publicly-available documentation that matches the add-on apps that you have installed to your environment, providing more accurate answers that are tailored to how your organization uses Business Central. This documentation is owned and hosted by the third-party publisher of each app. <br><br> **Example:** <br>You install an add-on to manage customer loyalty schemes that includes a new Customer Tier field added to the customer card. Copilot will now be able to explain how this field works, or why you get an error when setting this field.| You can continue to chat with Copilot, but responses will be of lower quality.<br><br> Copilot will respond only based on content from Microsoft’s documentation that has no information about how you have customized Business Central. Learn more in [Chat with Copilot](chat-with-copilot.md). |

## How does Bing Search work? 

The Bing Search service is hosted in the United States geographic region. When Copilot connects to this service, the web search query (input) and search results (output) are temporarily processed by this service. If your [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] environment is hosted outside of the United States, this input and output moves outside of your environment’s geographic region or compliance boundary, but isn't stored there for more than 1 day. 

## How much does it cost to search the web?

At this time, Copilot features that search the web are included in your [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] license at no additional cost. You don't incur any one-time or operating charges whenever these features search the web. 

## How can administrators enable Bing Search? 

From the **Copilot and agent capabilities** page, activate the switch **Enable Bing Search**. This setting affects the experience for all users of that environment, and takes effect when you or other users next sign into [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)].  

## Is it safe to enable Bing Search? 

Yes. Microsoft is committed to ensuring that Copilot is built for enterprise use with the security, privacy, compliance, and responsible AI controls that our customers expect.  

By enabling Bing Search in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]: 

- Minimal data is sent to Bing Search. This typically includes a few search terms, usually extracted from user prompts or generated by Copilot depending on the task that requires searching the web. Web search queries may include customer data or personal data. 
- Search results from Bing Search undergo various checks for safety, including malicious site detection and content filtering. 
- Web search queries aren't shared with advertisers and aren’t used to train our foundation Large Language Models (LLMs). 
- Copilot doesn’t search the web unconditionally. Searching the web is done selectively, whenever Copilot has no alternative to compute accurate results based on data within [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] or from the Azure OpenAI Service foundation models. 
- Copilot can make outgoing connects to search the web, but it doesn't open up Copilot up for being accessed by any other website, app, or service on the internet. All calls are outgoing only. Copilot remains entirely operated by end-users in [!INCLUDE [prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] with the security, privacy, and compliance controls for your organization. 

## Related information

[Configure Copilot and agent capabilities](enable-ai.md)  