---
title: FAQs for analysis assist (preview) with Copilot
description: This FAQ provides information about the AI technology used for analyzing data on pages in Business Central. It includes key considerations and details about how AI is used, how it was tested and evaluated, and any specific limitations.
ms.date: 02/13/2024
ms.custom: 
  - responsible-ai-faqs
ms.topic: article
author: jswymer
ms.author: jswymer
ms.reviewer: jswymer
ms.search.keywords: copilot, AI 
ms.collection:
  - bap-ai-copilot
---

# FAQ for analysis assist (preview) with Copilot

[!INCLUDE[production-ready-preview-dynamics365](includes/production-ready-preview-dynamics365.md)]

These frequently asked questions (FAQ) describe the AI impact of anaylsis assist in [!INCLUDE[prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)].

## What is analysis assist?

Analysis assist is data analysis mode. The data analysis mode enables you to analyze data directly from the page, without having to run a report or switch another application like Excel. It provides an interactive and versatile way to calculate, summarize, and examine data. Instead of running reports using different options and filters, you can add multiple tabs that represent different tasks or views on the data. Examples could be "My customers", "Follow up items", "Recently added vendors", "Sales statistics", or any other view you can imagine

Analysis assist enables you to 
Copilot is the AI-powered assistant for work that boosts creativity and improves productivity for Business Central users. Copilot can help reduce the time it takes to identify trends and anomalies in your business data by enabling you to express your analysis as a simple sentence, and without ever leaving Business Central. By describing how you want to structure your data analysis, such as “show me vendors by location sorted by amount of purchases,” you can quickly get to insights instead of spending time on the clicks and keystrokes needed to construct analysis views. This feature can help you make informed decisions and take action based on the insights you gain from your data. For example, you can use this feature to identify which vendors are supplying each of your warehouses, and then take steps to optimize your supply chain or negotiate better deals with your vendors.


## What are capabilities of analysis assist?

## What is the intended use of analysis assist?

Analysis assist is intended for creating analysis tabs to arrange and summarize data shown on list pages and queries. It doesn't provide insight into the data, like extracting actionable information or discovering trends or patterns that inform decision-making and drive business value.

## How was analysis assist evaluated? What metrics are used to measure performance?

## How does Microsoft monitor the quality of generated content?

Microsoft has various systems in place to ensure that content generated by Copilot is of the highest quality, detect abuse, and ensure safety for our customers and their data.

Users have the opportunity to provide feedback to every Copilot response and report inaccurate or inappropriate content to help Microsoft improve this feature.

- If you encounter inappropriate generated content, report it to Microsoft by using this feedback form: [Report abuse](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=2249810).

- We analyze and utilize user feedback on the feature to help us improve suggestions.

  You provide feedback by using the like (thumbs up) or dislike (thumbs down) icon on the **Copilot** pane in [!INCLUDE[prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)].

- Microsoft might disable the Copilot-driven features for selected customers if abuse of the functionality is detected.

## What are the limitations of analysis assist? How can users minimize the impact of the analysis assist limitations when using the system?

- General limitations of AI

  AI systems are valuable tools but they're nondeterministic. The content they generate may not be completely accurate. So, it's important to use your judgment to review and verify responses Copilot before making decisions that could affect stakeholders like customers and partners.

- Language limitations

  - Analysis assist is only supported in English for the following locales: en-AU, en-CA, en-GB, en-IE, en-IN, en-NZ, en-PH, en-SG, en-US, en-ZA.

    If the display language in Business Central isn't one of the these locales, chat isn't available.

  - The quality of answers can be lower under the following conditions:
    - The language locale is something other than en-US.
    - When the language setting for the user in Business Central differs from the primary language of the business data in the [!INCLUDE[prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] database.

- Specific industry, product, and topic limitations

  Organizations that operate in some domains, such as medical, drugs, legal, and weapons, and so on, might experience lower quality of service.

## What operational factors and settings allow for effective and responsible use of the feature?


-->
## In which geographies and languages is analysis assist available? 

This capability is available to any environment country/region localization and in any user language. For customer environments located in countries/regions where Azure OpenAI Service isn't deployed, administrators must first consent to allowing movement of data across boundaries for [!INCLUDE[prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)] to connect to Azure OpenAI service and for this capability to be available. 

For more information on language, see previous question about limitations.  


## See also

[Reconcile bank accounts using bank reconciliation assist (preview)](bank-reconciliation-with-copilot.md)
