---
title: Sales by Location (Power BI Report)
description: The *Sales by Location* report provides an overview of sales performance broken down by location.
author: kennieNP
ms.author: kepontop
ms.reviewer: bholtorf
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.search.keywords: reporting
ms.search.form: 
ms.date: 10/26/2024
ms.service: dynamics-365-business-central
---

# Sales by Location (Power BI Report)

[!INCLUDE[applies-to-2024w2](includes/applies-to-2024w2.md)]

The *Sales by Location* report provides an overview of sales performance broken down by location. It showcases key metrics such as total sales amount, total quantity sold, and cost of goods sold. This information can be further broken down by specific items sold at each location.

:::image type="content" source="media/powerbi/sales/sales-by-location.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Sales by Location Power BI report" lightbox="media/powerbi/sales/sales-by-location.png":::


## How to use the report

This report is targeted towards leadership and management teams to help them track revenue and cost breakdown per location, making it an essential report for any organization that operates across multiple locations.

As a COO of a retail company with multiple warehouse locations, it is important to have a high-level view of the sales performance of each location to make informed decisions about resource allocation and expansion plans. By using the *Sales by Location* report, you can quickly see the total revenue generated by each location and identify any underperforming locations. With this information, you can make better decisions about resource allocation, ensuring that the organization is operating efficiently and effectively across all locations.

As a regional manager responsible for overseeing several warehouse locations, you can use the *Sales by Location* report to track revenue and cost breakdown per location, identify areas for improvement, and adjust sales strategies. By analyzing the total sales amount, quantity sold, cost of goods sold, and gross profit for each location, you can quickly identify which locations are performing well and which ones need improvement.

## Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

The *Sales by Location* report includes the following KPIs and measures: 

- **[Sales Amount](sales-powerbi-sales-kpis.md#sales-amount)**  
- **[Sales Quantity](sales-powerbi-sales-kpis.md#sales-quantity)**  
- **[Cost Amount](sales-powerbi-sales-kpis.md#cost-amount)**  
- **[Cost Amount Non-Inv](sales-powerbi-sales-kpis.md#cost-amount-non-inv)**  
- **[Gross Profit](sales-powerbi-sales-kpis.md#gross-profit)**  
- **[Gross Profit Margin](sales-powerbi-sales-kpis.md#gross-profit-margin)**


Click on the link for a KPI to learn more about what it means, how it is calculated, and what data was used in the calculations. 

[!INCLUDE[powerbi-tip-track-kpis](includes/powerbi-tip-track-kpis.md)]


## Data used in the report

The *Sales by Location* report use data from the following tables in [!INCLUDE[prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]

- Location
- Item
- Value Entry
- Sales Line

## Try the report

Try the report here: [Sales by Location](https://businesscentral.dynamics.com?page=)

[!INCLUDE[ctrl-right-click-to-open-in-new-tab](includes/ctrl-right-click-to-open-in-new-tab.md)]

## See also

[Track your business KPIs with Power BI metrics](track-kpis-with-power-bi-metrics.md)   
[Ad-hoc analysis of sales data](ad-hoc-analysis-sales.md)   
[Built-in sales reports](sales-reports.md)   
[Sales analytics overview](sales-analytics-overview.md)  
[Sales overview](sales-manage-sales.md)  

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](includes/footer-banner.md)]
