---
title: Sales by Salesperson (Power BI Report)
description: The *Sales by Salesperson* report provides an overview of sales performance broken down by salesperson.
author: kennieNP
ms.author: kepontop
ms.reviewer: bholtorf
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.search.keywords: reporting
ms.search.form: 37006_Primary
ms.date: 10/26/2024
ms.service: dynamics-365-business-central
---

# Sales by Salesperson (Power BI Report)

[!INCLUDE[applies-to-2024w2](includes/applies-to-2024w2.md)]

The *Sales by Salesperson* report provides an overview of sales performance broken down by salesperson. It showcases key metrics such as total sales amount and quantity. This information can be further broken down by specific customers they are selling and items sold to the customers.

:::image type="content" source="media/powerbi/sales/sales-by-salesperson.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Sales by Salesperson Power BI report" lightbox="media/powerbi/sales/sales-by-salesperson.png":::


## How to use the report

This report is targeted towards management and sales teams to help them track the sales amount generated from each salesperson and their contribution to the overall revenue.

As a sales manager, you can use the *Sales by Salesperson* report to monitor the sales performance of each salesperson and identify the top-performing salespeople to reward them accordingly. By analyzing the total sales amount and quantity generated by each salesperson, you can easily identify who is contributing the most to your organization's sales performance. Additionally, this report allows you to identify any underperforming salespeople and provide them with additional support.

For example, you might notice that a particular salesperson's sales have been declining over the last few months. With this information, you can provide additional training or resources to help that salesperson achieve their sales targets.

As a salesperson, you can use the *Sales by Salesperson* report to monitor your own sales performance and identify areas for improvement. By analyzing the sales amount, quantity, and gross profit, you can easily identify which customers and items are contributing the most to your sales. With this information, you can focus your efforts on the most profitable areas and take actions to improve your sales performance. 

For example, if you notice that a particular customer is contributing a significant amount to your sales, you can focus on building a stronger relationship with that customer to increase their loyalty.

## Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

The *Sales by Salesperson* report includes the following KPIs and measures: 

- [**Sales Amount**](sales-powerbi-sales-kpis.md#sales-amount)
- [**Sales Quantity**](sales-powerbi-sales-kpis.md#sales-quantity)
- [**Gross Profit**](sales-powerbi-sales-kpis.md#gross-profit)
- [**Gross Profit Margin**](sales-powerbi-sales-kpis.md#gross-profit-margin)

Click on the link for a KPI to learn more about what it means, how it is calculated, and what data was used in the calculations. 

[!INCLUDE[powerbi-tip-track-kpis](includes/powerbi-tip-track-kpis.md)]


## Data used in the report

The *Sales by Salesperson* report use data from the following tables in [!INCLUDE[prod_short](includes/prod_short.md)]

- Customer
- Salesperson/Purchaser
- Item
- Value Entry
- Sales Line

## Try the report

Try the report here: [Sales by Salesperson](https://businesscentral.dynamics.com?page=37006)

[!INCLUDE[ctrl-right-click-to-open-in-new-tab](includes/ctrl-right-click-to-open-in-new-tab.md)]

## See also

[Track your business KPIs with Power BI metrics](track-kpis-with-power-bi-metrics.md)   
[Ad-hoc analysis of sales data](ad-hoc-analysis-sales.md)   
[Built-in sales reports](sales-reports.md)   
[Sales analytics overview](sales-analytics-overview.md)  
[Sales overview](sales-manage-sales.md)  

[!INCLUDE[footer-include](includes/footer-banner.md)]
