---
title: Revenue by Item (Power BI Report)
description: The Revenue by Item report breaks down subscription revenue by item performance.
author: vanessa-mi
ms.author: bholtorf
ms.reviewer: 
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.search.keywords: reporting
ms.search.form:
ms.date: 12/18/2025
ms.service: dynamics-365-business-central
---

# Revenue by Item (Power BI Report)

The **Revenue by Item** report gives a clear picture of your organization's subscription item sales. It showcases key metrics for each item or item category. For example, the monthly recurring revenue, monthly recurring cost and net monthly recurring profit.

:::image type="content" source="../../media/powerbi/subscription-billing/sb-revenue-by-item.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the Subscription Billing Revenue by Item Power BI report":::

## Use the report

The Revenue by Item report provides a clear overview of the monthly recurring revenue (MRR) generated by individual items and item categories. It helps users understand which products contribute most to recurring income and how profitable these products are.

Sales managers can use the Revenue by Item report to monitor how recurring revenue performs at product and item-category level. By comparing MRR and net recurring profit across items, they can identify products that generate stable, high-margin revenue versus items that drive volume but low profitability. This helps sales managers steer the sales focus toward more profitable subscription offerings, adjust incentive models, and prioritize items when defining sales targets or campaigns.

Salespeople can use the report to understand which subscription items generate the most recurring revenue. By reviewing item-level MRR and profitability, they can focus their conversations on high-value products, confidently recommend premium or higher-margin items, and identify opportunities to expand existing subscriptions.

## Key performance indicators

- [Mon. Recurring Revenue](subscription-powerbi-subscription-kpis#mon-recurring-revenue)
- [Mon. Recurring Cost](subscription-powerbi-subscription-kpis#mon-recurring-cost)
- [Mon. Net Profit Amount](subscription-powerbi-subscription-kpis#mon-net-profit-amount)
- [Mon. Net Profit Percentage](subscription-powerbi-subscription-kpis#mon-net-profit-percentage)

[!INCLUDE[click-on-a-kpi-link](../../includes/click-on-a-kpi-link.md)]

[!INCLUDE[powerbi-tip-track-kpis](../../includes/powerbi-tip-track-kpis.md)]

## Data used in the report

The report uses data form the following tables in Business Central:

- Subscription Contract Analysis Entries
- Item

## Related information

[Track your business KPIs with Power BI metrics](../../track-kpis-with-power-bi-metrics.md)  
[Setting up the Subscription Billing Power BI app](subscription-powerbi-app-setup.md)  
[Subscription Billing controlling](../controlling.md)  
[Subscription Billing overview](../welcome.md)  
