---
title: Purpose
hide_title: true
sidebar_label: Purpose
slug: /ubb/purpose
---

# Purpose and benefits of DYCE Usage Based Billing
**DYCE Usage Based Billing** offers an extremely flexible solution for billing monthly usage data for subscription contracts. The app is constantly evolving to meet ever-increasing requirements. <br/>
The mass of monthly usage data generated by cloud-based services, for example, is transformed into individual invoices in just a few steps. Unused quantities can automatically lead to Credit Memos. This applies to both Vendor and Customer Contract Invoices. A Detail Overview additionally shows all items individually, if required.

Prerequisite for use is the use of **DYCE Subscription & Recurring Billing**. For more information on Contracts, Service Objects and Service Commitments, please refer to [this](/docs/srb/purpose.md) part of the DYCE documentation.


## Usage data
If usage data is the basis for billing Service Commitments, it can be imported and processed. Missing data (like Service Objects, Service Commitments and Contracts) can be created within the processing. This step is done only once per subscription. Afterwards, usage data can be processed automatically. <br/>

The type of usage data can be quite different. The following types are widely used:
* Quantity used per period
* Transaction volume
* Consumption based usage of resources

**DYCE Usage Based Billing** can process these different data and further calculate them in different ways. <br/>
At the same time, it is very likely that the data structure of multiple suppliers is different.


## Billing for usage based Service Commitments
Usage data and related Subscriptions are linked to Contracts via Service Commitments. When usage data is processed, price calculation takes place. For Service Commitments on the Vendor side the prices of the Supplier are taken over, for Service Commitments on the Customer side the calculation is done using the corresponding [methods for pricing](/docs/ubb/processing-usage-data/imports-processing.md#methods-for-pricing). The Contracts that include these Service Commitments are then used to generate invoices.